Collaboration
=============

One of the Tuleap objectives is to provide developers with
efficient software development and project management tools. In
addition, the Tuleap site should quickly become the favorite
communication channel of all users as it is pivotal for the project
teams and their community of users to communicate efficiently.

To this end, Tuleap offers a series of communication
services that can be customized by the project team. These include
mailing lists, the News service, the Web Forums and a Instant Messaging
Plug-in.

.. _mailing-lists:

Mailing Lists
-------------

.. _creation:

Creation
````````

Each project can create as many mailing lists (ML) as needed. To create
a mailing list click on the "Lists" item in the Project Main menu, then
click on the "Admin" link in the mailing list menu bar.

Adding a ML is just a matter of giving it a name, a one-line
description, and to specify whether it is a public or a private list. A
private list won't show up on the welcome screen of the Mailing List
service and is therefore only known to the project team. This will
prevent other people from subscribing or posting messages to it.

In order to minimize naming conflicts between the many MLs created by
the various Tuleap projects, the mailing list follows the
following naming pattern:

::

    projectname-listname@SYS_LISTS_HOST

Where:

-  ``projectname`` is your project short name as defined during project
   registration.

-  ``listname`` is the name you have chosen for your mailing list.

    **Note**

    Creating a mailing list implies that you are the mailing list
    administrator, at least at the beginning. As the ML administrator,
    you'll receive some additional instructions via e-mail shortly after
    the creation of the ML. This is an important mail message that
    contains the URLs for the ML administration and information pages
    and the default ML administration password generated by
    Tuleap. Keep it in a safe place!

   **Tip**

   A Tuleap hosted project should at least create one
   mailing list (or a web forum) where all users can post questions and
   comments. This list is typically called
   ``projectname-interest@SYS_LISTS_HOST``. We strongly encourage you
   to follow this well established practice.

Administration
``````````````

The ML administration is also entirely Web based. You can access the ML
administration page by using the URL that you received when you first
created the ML. In case you have misplaced the original message you can
access the ML administration page at the following URL:

::

    http://SYS_LISTS_HOST/mailman/admin/listname

The Administration page allows you to tune many ML parameters, manage
list members, and administrators, privacy, new member welcome messages,
etc. GNU/Mailman, the ML manager used by Tuleap, is an
extremely capable software and we invite you to visit the administration
page at least once to get an idea about the feature set.

    **Note**

    Note that project administrators are not automatically made
    administrators of project mailing lists, and the administrative
    password for the mailing list is distinct from any of the other
    Tuleap user passwords.

(Un)Subscription, Archive and Preferences
`````````````````````````````````````````

Unless its owner marks a ML as private, any Tuleap user can
subscribe to a project Mailing List (ML). To subscribe to a mailing list
click on the "Lists" item in the Project Main menu. From there click on
the "Subscribe/Unsubscribe/Preferences" link of the appropriate ML. Then
follow the instructions presented.

The Tuleap ML system (GNU/Mailman) also archives all the
messages posted on a mailing list. Following the "Archive" link on the
same page as before will bring you to archived messages grouped by
month. Note that the current archiving software is not MIME-aware and
does not support the archiving of attachments.

Global Preferences
``````````````````
Setting a membership maximum
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tuleap has patched Mailman so that the system forge administrators can set the
maximum number of users per mailing list. This feature is disabled by default.
To enable it you need console access to the Tuleap machine.
::

    $ vi /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/mm_cfg.py

Say you want to limit the number of members to 100. Add/ edit the following lines
::

    # Limit number of users in mailing lists.
    # Possible values: integer or 'false'
    LIST_MEMBER_MAX = 100

Then restart the service
::

    $ service mailman restart

This will limit the number of people who can be subscribed to the mailing lists
using the mass-import functionality of Mailman. However, it will not prevent
members from subscribing one-by-one via the interface or directly through the
mailing list.

.. _news-service:

News Service
------------

The News service complements your mailing lists. This service allows you
to publish pieces of news related to your project. Any event in the life
of your project is a good candidate for a news release: new people in
the team, new software release, information on related technologies and
why not your wedding announcement or the birth of your sixth child ? .
Do not keep your project concealed behind a veil. Make your project life
public for the benefit of all employees and for your faithful community
of users.

News publishing is very easy. Simply click on the "News" item in the
Project Main menu and then on the "Submit" link in the News Service menu
at the top of the page. From there type the title of the news and its
text body. You can type URLs in the body. Tuleap will detect
them and transform them into a hyperlink in the published version. You
can also choose whether you want the news to be public this means
visible on your Project Dashboard for all Tuleap users or
private which means visible for your project members only.

Any Tuleap visitor can attach a follow-up comment to the
news visible for her on your project page making each piece of news a
potential forum of discussion [#f1]_. In addition the Tuleap
Team sees all the public news published by all Tuleap
projects and can decide that a project news is worth publishing on the
Tuleap front page. A big splash indeed!! When submitting a
news, you can request a promotion for the Tuleap front page
to the administrator.

Web Forums
----------

This is the third form of communication offered by Tuleap.
Web Forums are more or less equivalent to mailing list except that the
message-posting takes place via a Web interface rather than email.
Therefore you need to have a connection to the site to participate in
the discussion because you can't prepare your message off-line, as you
can with an ML.

To access the Web Forums of a Tuleap project, click on the
"Forums" item in the Project Main menu. When a Tuleap
project is created, it is given three Web forums: Open Discussions, Help
and Developers. These Forums and all others are open to all
Tuleap users both for reading and posting unless you decide
to make them private (see below). A user can also decide to monitor a
Web Forum. Monitoring a Forum will cause Tuleap to
automatically forward all the posted messages via e- mail thus avoiding
repeated visits to the Forum Web page.

Project administrators can create other Forums on demand by using the
Forum Administration module that can be accessed via the "Admin" link in
the News Service menu. Administrators can follow the links on this page
to Add Forum, Delete Message, and Update Forum Info/Status. The Update
Forum Info/Status page lets administrators make forums public or
private, edit the name and description of the forum, or even delete the
forum.

.. [#f1]
   Behind the scene, each piece of news is actually managed exactly like
   a Tuleap Web Forum.
