Tuleap 10.x
###########

Tuleap 10.11
============

Incorrect path to the Git binaries in the Gitolite configuration
----------------------------------------------------------------

If you have installed after Tuleap 10.5.99.15, Gitolite will not be able to find the
Git 2.12 binaries. Tuleap instances that have been installed before that and that have
followed the deployment guide while upgrading are not impacted.
Gitolite is the software used by Tuleap to, among other things, do the access control
management of the Git repositories.

The Gitolite configuration must be updated to set the path environnement to
``/opt/rh/sclo-git212/root/usr/bin:$ENV{PATH}`` instead of ``/opt/rh/sclo-git212/root/usr/bin/git:$ENV{PATH}``.

The following one-liner can be used to achieve that:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> sed -i "s#/opt/rh/sclo-git212/root/usr/bin/git:#/opt/rh/sclo-git212/root/usr/bin:#" /var/lib/gitolite/.gitolite.rc


Tuleap 10.10
============

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 10.9
===========

End of support of PHP 5.6
-------------------------

Tuleap now comes with PHP 7.2. All new installations defaults to this setup.

To switch on it, you first need to deploy the PHP FPM configuration for PHP 7.2.

.. sourcecode:: bash

  /usr/share/tuleap/tools/utils/php72/run.php --module=fpm

Then stop the PHP FPM service running with PHP 5.6 and start a new one running
with PHP 7.2.

On RHEL/CentOS 7:

.. sourcecode:: bash

  systemctl daemon-reload
  systemctl restart tuleap-php-fpm


On RHEL/CentOS 6:

.. sourcecode:: bash

  service php56-php-fpm stop
  chkconfig php56-php-fpm off
  service php72-php-fpm start
  chkconfig php72-php-fpm on # Useful if you want the service to be started on boot

Tuleap 10.8
===========

Deployment of a new allowed command when doing Git over SSH operation
---------------------------------------------------------------------

A new command must be allowed when doing Git over SSH operation for the support of Git LFS.
You are concerned if:

* you are running a RHEL/CentOS 6 server with the ``tuleap-plugin-git-gitolite3`` package
* you are running a RHEL/CentOS 7 server with the ``tuleap-plugin-git`` package

In the Gitolite configuration (``/var/lib/gitolite/.gitolite.rc``) the command ``git-lfs-authenticate``
must be added to the whitelisted commands.

The following one-liner can be used to achieve that:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> sed -i -e "/# These are the commands enabled by default/a 'git-lfs-authenticate'," /var/lib/gitolite/.gitolite.rc

Apache configuration must be redeployed
---------------------------------------

In some cases the parsing of Apache logs was not done resulting in missing SVN usage statistics.
In order to fix that, some configuration files might need to be redeployed.

You can use the following command to do so:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> /usr/share/tuleap/tools/utils/php56/run.php --module=apache


Tuleap 10.7
===========

Renaming of the Project Certification plugin
--------------------------------------------

The Project Certification plugin has been renamed to Project Ownership. If you use this plugin, you will need
to update the ForgeUpgrade configuration before the execution of the ForgeUpgrade utility.

You can use the following command to do so:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> sed -i 's#/usr/share/tuleap/plugins/project_certification#/usr/share/tuleap/plugins/project_ownership#' /etc/tuleap/forgeupgrade/config.ini

Crosstracker nginx configuration
--------------------------------

The nginx custom configuration file for the crosstracker plugin must be deleted.
To do this, you have to delete the file ``/etc/nginx/conf.d/tuleap-plugins/crosstracker.conf``
and restart the nginx service.

Tuleap 10.6
===========


Plugin Git with Gitolite3 now requires Git 2.12
-----------------------------------------------

The configuration of Gitolite must been manually updated to take into account
the new path to the Git binaries. The update can be done with the following command:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> sed -i "s#/opt/rh/rh-git29/root/usr/bin#/opt/rh/sclo-git212/root/usr/bin#" /var/lib/gitolite/.gitolite.rc

REST route ``POST /git/{id}/build_status`` is no more available
---------------------------------------------------------------

As announced in Tuleap 10.2, this REST route has been replaced
by the REST route ``POST /git/{id_or_path}/statuses/{commit_reference}``.

Your CI jobs and scripts that are still using the last route will need to be updated.

More information on how to configure your CI jobs and updated script to publish
the feedback of your jobs to Tuleap can be found here: :ref:`pullrequest-with-jenkins-feedback`.

Removal of the IM plugin
------------------------

The IM plugin has been removed and is not available anymore in the Tuleap repository.
If you still had the plugin enabled on your Tuleap instance, it will disappear after
the update.


Tuleap 10.5
===========

PHP-FPM does not restart after PHP-FPM upgrade
----------------------------------------------

Tuleap configuration can conflict with the default configuration of the PHP-FPM package.
We advise you to create an empty configuration file for the default configuration to
avoid the recreation of the default configuration file.

::

    touch /etc/opt/remi/php56/php-fpm.d/www.conf


Tuleap 10.4
===========

New RPM repository for PHP packages
-----------------------------------

The Software Collection for PHP 5.6 is not supported anymore, therefore Tuleap
has moved to the **remi-safe** repository. You will need to install to be able
to upgrade.

To install it if you are using RHEL/CentOS 6:

::

    yum install https://rpms.remirepo.net/enterprise/remi-release-6.rpm

To install it if you are using RHEL/CentOS 7:

::

    yum install https://rpms.remirepo.net/enterprise/remi-release-7.rpm

You can find find more information about the installation of the remi-safe repository
on the `Remi's RPM repositories Repository Configuration page <https://blog.remirepo.net/pages/Config-en>`_.

Once the installation of this repository is done, you will need to stop the existing
PHP-FPM service before proceeding to the update (see :ref:`update`):

.. sourcecode:: bash

  service rh-php56-php-fpm stop

After the update, you will need to deploy the PHP-FPM configuration for the new
service and to start it:

.. sourcecode:: bash

  /usr/share/tuleap/tools/utils/php56/run.php --module=fpm
  service php56-php-fpm start
  chkconfig php56-php-fpm on # Useful if you want the service to be started on boot

If you had the ``sclo-php56-php-pecl-redis`` package installed, you will need to
install the ``php56-php-pecl-redis`` package (``yum install php56-php-pecl-redis``).

After that your Tuleap instance should be running, you can then remove previous
PHP56 packages coming from the RH PHP56 SCL and PHP56 SCLo with ``yum remove rh-php56\* sclo-php56\*``.

If you previously had installed the CentOS Vault RPM repository you can also safely
remove it from your system (``rm /etc/yum.repos.d/centos-vault-rh-php56.repo``).

Tuleap 10.3
===========

Update of themes variants
-------------------------

The following theme variants does not exist anymore:

* DarkOrange
* DarkBlue
* DarkGreen
* DarkRed
* DarkBlueGrey
* DarkPurple

Please make sure that they are not anymore used by ``$sys_default_theme_variant`` and ``$sys_available_theme_variants`` variables in your ``/etc/tuleap/conf/local.inc`` file.

Monitoring and instrumentation
------------------------------

Instrumentation based on statsd has been removed in favor of Prometheus. See :ref:`admin_monitoring_with_prometheus`.

Tuleap 10.2
===========

Continuous integration jobs should use pullrequest target repository
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Until now it was necessary to use the source repository when using continuous
integration with pull requests. It is now recommended to update your jobs to use
the target repository to retrieve data.
The existing REST route to publish the build status has also been deprecated,
in favor of a new route.

More information on how to configure your CI jobs and updated script to publish
the feedback of your jobs to Tuleap can be found here: :ref:`pullrequest-with-jenkins-feedback`.


Changes in Tuleap internal API to communicate with the database impacting external plugins
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These changes only impacts users maintaining plugins outside the Tuleap codebase.
If you are only using plugins from the official Tuleap repository you are not
concerned and you can safely ignore this.

If you maintain a plugin, it is highly recommended to do the following changes:
 * any direct usage of ``\DataAccess`` must be replaced by ``\Tuleap\DB\Compat\Legacy2018\LegacyDataAccessInterface``
 * any direct usage of ``\DataAccessResult`` must be replaced by ``\Tuleap\DB\Compat\Legacy2018\LegacyDataAccessResultInterface``

If possible, your code should be updated to work directly the API proposed under
the ``\Tuleap\DB\`` namespace.

Theses changes will become mandatory in upcoming versions of Tuleap.


Deprecation of statsd for the instrumentation
---------------------------------------------

Tuleap 10.2 is the last version supporting statsd to publish instrumentation
data. Tuleap 10.3 will come with a native support of Prometheus which will be
the only supported way of collecting and processing instrumentation data in
Tuleap.


Tuleap 10.0
===========

Git mirroring: necessary update of the gitolite admin update script
-------------------------------------------------------------------

If you use the Git mirroring feature, you will need to update the gitolite admin
update script on the mirrors so it can work with recent of gitolite.

You need to replace on the mirrors the content of the file
``/usr/local/bin/update_gladmin.sh`` by:

.. sourcecode:: bash

  #!/bin/sh

  git=$1
  gitname="`basename $git`"

  if [ $gitname = gitolite-admin.git ]
  then
    cd $git
    export GL_BINDIR=/usr/share/gitolite3
    export GL_LIBDIR=$GL_BINDIR/lib
    $HOME/.gitolite/hooks/gitolite-admin/post-update refs/heads/master
  fi


Improper certificate validation when communicating with Mattermost servers
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change only impacts users of the bot Mattermost plugins. Until Tuleap 10.0,
certificates to communicate with Mattermost servers over HTTPS were not properly
verified. The certificates are now properly verified as anywhere else in Tuleap,
that means that connections to Mattermost might stop working if you use a
certificate that is not signed by one of the certificate authorities recognized
by your operating system. To solve it, you might want to use on your Mattermost
server a certificate signed by a recognized certificate authority such as
`Let's Encrypt <https://letsencrypt.org/>`_ or if you use your own internal
certificate authority you will need to add it to the store of your OS as
described here: :ref:`admin_howto_add_certicate`.



Apache configuration update to deal with an issue affecting Subversion copy and move operations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An issue affecting the Subversion copy and move operations has been discovered
and fixed. Unfortunately, the fix requires from the administrators a manual
update of the Apache configuration.

The following line needs to be added in the Apache virtualhost processing the
Subversion requests:

  .. sourcecode:: ApacheConf

    RequestHeader edit Destination ^https http early


The corresponding configuration block can either be found in ``/etc/httpd/conf.d/tuleap-vhost.conf``
or if the file does not exist in ``/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf``.

In ``/etc/httpd/conf.d/tuleap-vhost.conf``, once updated the virtualhost block will
look like this:

  .. sourcecode:: ApacheConf

    <VirtualHost 127.0.0.1:8080>
        ServerName tuleap.example.com
        ServerAlias www.tuleap.example.com
        ServerAlias lists.tuleap.example.com

        RequestHeader edit Destination ^https http early

        # Include all configuration files from conf.d (php, subversion, etc.)
        # (also included from conf/ssl.conf)
        Include conf.d/tuleap-aliases/*.conf

       LogFormat "%v %h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %b" commonvhost
       CustomLog logs/access_log commonvhost
       CustomLog logs/svn_log "%h %l %u %t %U %>s \"%{SVN-ACTION}e\"" env=SVN-ACTION
    </VirtualHost>

In ``/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf``, once updated the virtualhost block will look
like this:

  .. sourcecode:: ApacheConf

    <VirtualHost *:8080>
        ServerName tuleap.example.com
        ServerAlias svn.*.tuleap.example.com
        RequestHeader edit Destination ^https http early
        Include conf.d/codendi_svnroot.conf
    </VirtualHost>


If you use a Distributed Tuleap setup, you will need to replace the following
section in your nginx configuration

  .. sourcecode:: nginx

    set $fixed_destination $http_destination;
    if ( $http_destination ~* ^https(.*)$ ) {
        set $fixed_destination http$1;
    }

with

  .. sourcecode:: nginx

    proxy_set_header Destination $http_destination;
