Tuleap 13.x
###########

Tuleap 13.12
============

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 13.11
============


Changes in the way SVN authentication and project level authorization is handled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change is not expected to require modifications from system administrators.
As it impacts a sensitive part of Tuleap, system administrators should test carefully
SVN accesses after the upgrade. In case of issues, please reach out to the development team.

The way Tuleap authenticates users and authorizes them at the project level has changed.
Until now, Tuleap was handling this using a ``mod_perl`` module in Apache. The authentication is now
handled like other web requests without dependending on a module loaded in Apache.

Tuleap instances deployed using the advanced *distributed SVN* setup **must** ensure the Apache server
cannot be reached directly by the end-users otherwise they could access resources without being authenticated.

Tuleap 13.10
============

General availability of Document
--------------------------------

Please welcome Document plugin in Tuleap Community Edition 🎉.

There is now only one package ``tuleap-plugin-document`` to serve
the Document Manager. There is nothing to do for users of the
legacy ``tuleap-plugin-docman``, it will be automatically replaced
by ``tuleap-plugin-document`` during the upgrade.

Tuleap 13.9
===========

Brazilian Portuguese
--------------------

Brazilian Portuguese can be enabled for your instance by adding ``pt_BR`` to the list of supported languages in
``/etc/tuleap/conf/local.inc``. For example:

.. code-block:: php

  $sys_supported_languages = 'en_US,fr_FR,pt_BR';

Please note that Brazilian Portuguese is a community contribution and is only partially translated.

Tuleap 13.8
===========

General availability of Baseline
--------------------------------

Tuleap Enterprise users that were using the specific Baseline repository to retrieve the Baseline plugin can now
remove it from their Yum configuration.

The Baseline plugin is now available in the main Tuleap Enterprise repository.

Docker Images
-------------

The environment variables ``TULEAP_DB_SSL_MODE`` and ``TULEAP_DB_SSL_CA`` were removed in favor of the official variables:

- ``TULEAP_SYS_ENABLESSL``: can be either ``0`` to disable or ``1`` to enable encryption of traffic with database.
- ``TULEAP_SYS_DB_SSL_VERIFY_CERT``: can be either ``0`` to disable or ``1`` to enable verification of database's certificates.
- ``TULEAP_SYS_DB_SSL_CA``: path toward a custom CA file for certifacte verification.

This only affect newly deployed containers (this variable is only used at container initalization at the moment).


Tuleap 13.7
===========

Webdav
------

The access via a dedicated host (like ``https://webdav.tuleap.example.com/``) that was once necessary for Windows 7 and
before, is now removed. Webdav is only accessible on ``https://tuleap.example.com/plugins/webdav``.

Tuleap 13.6
===========

Configuration / local.inc
-------------------------

Two variables from ``local.inc``, ``$sys_dbauth_user`` and  ``$sys_dbauth_passwd`` were automatically transfered to the database at upgrade.
You should remove those 2 variables from ``local.inc``. Please note that ``sys_dbauth_passwd`` is now stored encrypted.

RedHat/CentOS git package no longer needed
------------------------------------------

With packaging of gitolite as part of Tuleap, there is no longer any dependencies on "system" git. You can remove the package with:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    yum remove git

Tuleap 13.5
===========

Docker Images
-------------

Docker images now requires password for database user (tuleapadm) and site administrator to be injected at container
initialization. See :ref:`mandatory configuration variables <docker-images-compose>`.

The parameter ``DB_HOST`` was renamed ``TULEAP_SYS_DBHOST``. This only affect newly deployed containers (this variable
is only used at container initalization at the moment).

Tuleap 13.4
===========

Removal of the ``textualreport`` plugin
---------------------------------------

This plugin is replaced by the Tuleap DocGen (``document_generation``) plugin.
You can active the Tuleap DocGen plugin from the site administration if you wish to
keep a way to generate document from a tracker report.

Tuleap 13.3
===========

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 13.2
===========

Metadata of the Tuleap Community repository are now signed
----------------------------------------------------------

The metadata of the Tuleap Community repository are now GPG signed. Previously, only the packages themselves were signed.
You can update your ``/etc/yum.repos.d/Tuleap.repo`` to add the ``repo_gpgcheck=1`` directive to tell yum to verify the
signature.

You can verify your configuration is correct by checking the :ref:`Tuleap installation page <tuleap_installation_install_packages>`.

End of life for Tuleap "stable" repository
------------------------------------------

The repository located at the URL ``https://ci.tuleap.net/yum/tuleap/rhel/7/stable/x86_64/`` will not be updated anymore.
The repository will put offline at some point in the future without further notice.

Please note that `stable` name has always been misleading as it's merely a snapshot a fixed point in time with no stabilization process. It was there provide dependencies (eg. mailman or mediawiki) that we were not able to ship elsewhere. Those packages are now built properly within the regular publication pipeline. Hence, `stable` has no reasons to be kept.

Tuleap Enterprise users can remove it from their repo file ``/etc/yum.repos.d/Tuleap.repo``
(it is the repository with the ``exclude=tuleap*`` instruction). In case of doubt please reach out to your support contact.

Tuleap Community users should update their configuration to match the instructions given on the :ref:`Tuleap installation page <tuleap_installation_install_packages>`.
Please note this repository was never officially supported for Tuleap Community.

All users will need to log in again after the upgrade (>= Tuleap Community 13.1.99.22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to mitigate performance issues we have been forced to clear all the ongoing sessions.
All your users will be disconnected after this upgrade. This is a one time thing and there is
no security implications to it.


Mediawiki MLEB extensions removed
---------------------------------

Those Mediawiki extensions :ref:`are disabled since Tuleap 12.7 <mediawiki_mleb_extensions_desactivation>`. Since no feedback has been
provided since then they have been removed definitely. If the package ``php-mediawiki-mleb-tuleap`` is installed on your server, it is
safe to remove it.

Tuleap 13.1
===========

All users will need to log in again after the upgrade (>= Tuleap Enterprise 13.1-2)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to mitigate performance issues we have been forced to clear all the ongoing sessions.
All your users will be disconnected after this upgrade. This is a one time thing and there is
no security implications to it.


Minimal browser support raised to Firefox 78 ESR and Chrome 87
--------------------------------------------------------------

The best effort support is now Firefox 78 ESR and Chrome 87. Versions
older than that do not work at all anymore to browse Tuleap.

:ref:`The recommendation is still to use the latest version of Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge
or Google Chrome <user_supported_browsers>`.

Tuleap can no longer be accessed with http without TLS (HTTPS only)
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuleap always expects to be accessed over HTTPS, for this reason having a dedicated
setting ``sys_https_host`` is no more necessary.

You should make sure the setting ``sys_default_domain`` in your
``/etc/tuleap/conf/local.inc`` file is set to the qualified domain
name you use to access the instance.

The setting ``sys_https_host`` can be removed from your
``/etc/tuleap/conf/local.inc`` file as it is no more used.

Plugin configuration can no longer be edited from Tuleap Site Administrator UI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It's been deprecated and deactivated by default since :ref:`Tuleap 9.8 <deployment_guide_9_8>`, released in may 2017. So
hopefully nobody still have this activated and used. Before Tuleap 9.8, plugin variables defined in ``/etc/tuleap/plugin/$PLUGIN/etc/$PLUGIN.inc``
file were editable from site administration interface.

This was a major security risk (allow users to write code that will be executed is always a major risk) so we deactivated
it by default for all platforms and introduced a parameter in ``local.inc`` to allow admins to do a smooth transition.

In case of doubt, check if ``/etc/tuleap/conf/local.inc`` contains a variable named ``$sys_plugins_editable_configuration``:


* If it is set to ``0``. If it's the case, you're good, you can remove this variable, it's no longer used.
* If it is set to ``1``. You were at risk and you are now safer.

For teams that were still ``$sys_plugins_editable_configuration = 1;`` it means that update of the configuration must now
be done with an SSH access to the platform.

Tuleap 13.0
===========

Nothing to mention.
