Tuleap 14.x
###########

Tuleap 14.12
============

Upgrade of the local Meilisearch instance from 1.2 to 1.3
---------------------------------------------------------

If you have deployed a :ref:`local Meilisearch instance <fts-local-meilisearch>` it will be automatically
upgraded to the 1.3.1 version. The process is automatic when the server is restarted after its update.

The upgrade will re-index all the items. Until the process is completed, some items might not be found when
searching, and an increased load on your instance is expected.

Administrators having deployed an independent Meilisearch instance should also
`upgrade it <https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/update_and_migration/updating>`_.

Tuleap 14.11
============

Upgrade of the local Meilisearch instance from 1.0 to 1.2
---------------------------------------------------------

If you have deployed a :ref:`local Meilisearch instance <fts-local-meilisearch>` it will be automatically
upgraded to the 1.2.0 version. The process is automatic when the server is restarted after its update.

The upgrade will re-index all the items. Until the process is completed, some items might not be found when
searching, and an increased load on your instance is expected.

Administrators having deployed an independent Meilisearch instance should also
`upgrade it <https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/update_and_migration/updating>`_.

Tuleap 14.10
============

Minimal browser support raised to Firefox 102 ESR and Chrome 103
----------------------------------------------------------------

The best effort support is now Firefox 102 ESR and Chrome 103.
Versions older than that do not work at all anymore to browse Tuleap.

The previous minimal best effort browser version was Firefox 91 ESR which is out
of security support since 9 months.

:ref:`The recommendation is still to use the latest version of Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge
or Google Chrome <user_supported_browsers>`.


Tuleap 14.9
===========


Removal of Proftpd plugin
-------------------------

The Proftpd plugin has been removed. Please uninstall it from the site administration and remove
the package prior to the upgrade if you had it installed.

.. sourcecode:: shell

    yum remove tuleap-plugin-proftpd

Tuleap 14.8
===========

Plugin removal
--------------

Some plugins have been removed, if you have any of following listed plugins installed **you must removed them prior the upgrade**:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    yum remove tuleap-plugin-referencealias-git \
        tuleap-plugin-referencealias-mediawiki \
        tuleap-plugin-referencealias-tracker \
        tuleap-plugin-referencealias-svn \
        tuleap-plugin-referencealias-core \
        tuleap-plugin-artifactsfolders

Default protection against Server Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
-------------------------------------------------------------

Tuleap now comes with a protection against `Server Side Request Forgery <https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Server_Side_Request_Forgery>`_.
This protection is active by default if you have not defined a custom ``sys_proxy`` setting.

Any outbound requests Tuleap send (e.g. webhooks, imports from JIRA, RSS widget…) are now rejected if they try to access
a service on a :ref:`non public network <ssrf_default_filters>`.

You can find more information on what is exactly filtered and how to add exceptions to the filters in :ref:`the dedicated documentation section <ssrf_protection>`.

Tuleap 14.7
===========

Automatic deployment of Tuleap Realtime
---------------------------------------

The Tuleap Realtime service is now automatically deployed and managed by Tuleap.
The Tuleap Realtime service now listen on ``localhost`` and is accessed via the same
endpoint than the rest of the web UI.

If you had customized the ``nginx`` configuration to make it work in your situation you should remove
your customizations to avoid potential conflicts.

Tuleap 14.6
===========

Upgrade of the local Meilisearch instance from 0.35.0 to 1.0.0
---------------------------------------------------------------

This is only a concern for you if you have deployed a :ref:`local Meilisearch instance <fts-local-meilisearch>`.

This upgrade requires to "update" the Meilisearch database to the `new 1.0.0 version <https://www.meilisearch.com/blog/v1-enterprise-ready-stable>`_ 🎉.

In order to do that, drop all the existing data and then ask Tuleap to re-index everything after you have upgraded the packages:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    systemctl stop tuleap
    rm -rf /var/lib/tuleap/fts_meilisearch_server/data.ms/
    systemctl start tuleap
    tuleap full-text-search:identify-all-items-to-index
    tuleap full-text-search:index-all-pending-items


Removal of remaining dependencies to PHP 8.0 packages
-----------------------------------------------------

The remaining dependencies to PHP 8.0 packages have been removed.
After the upgrade you can remove the packages from your system.

On CentOS/RHEL 7:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    yum remove php80\*

On Rocky Linux 9:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    dnf remove php80\*

Tuleap 14.5
===========

End of support of PHP 8.0
-------------------------

Tuleap now comes with PHP 8.1.

PHP FPM configuration will be deployed automatically by ``tuleap-cfg site-deploy``.

If you have made some tweaks to the configuration file
``/etc/opt/remi/php80/php-fpm.d/tuleap.conf`` you will also need
to adapt them for the new configuration at ``/etc/opt/remi/php81/php-fpm.d/tuleap.conf``.

MySQL 8.0 support and upgrade
-----------------------------

Tuleap supports MySQL 8.0 since the 14.3 release.
You must plan and upgrade to it before the end of life of MySQL 5.7 in October 2023.

You can report to :ref:`the upgrade guide for more information <mysql80_upgrade>`.


Tuleap 14.4
===========

Removal of the legacy ForgeUpgrade compatibility layer
------------------------------------------------------

:ref:`Update script/procedures <update>` must no longer use ``/usr/lib/forgeupgrade/bin/forgeupgrade``,
the compatibility layer has been removed. ``tuleap-cfg site-deploy`` must be used instead.

Tuleap 14.3
===========

Upgrade of the local Meilisearch instance from 0.29.0 to 0.30.0
---------------------------------------------------------------

This is only a concern for you if you have deployed a :ref:`local Meilisearch instance <fts-local-meilisearch>`.

This upgrade requires to "update" the Meilisearch database to the new version.

In order to do that, drop all the existing data and then ask Tuleap to re-index everything after you have upgraded the packages:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    rm -rf /var/lib/tuleap/fts_meilisearch_server/data.ms/
    tuleap full-text-search:identify-all-items-to-index
    tuleap full-text-search:index-all-pending-items

Tuleap 14.2
===========

With the removal of the "good old" ``tuleap.pm`` that was used to control the access to subversion repositories, 
you should force the re-generation of the apache configuration before the start of the stack.

You can play the following snippet before running the :ref:`regular upgrade <update>`

.. sourcecode:: shell

    rm -f /etc/httpd/conf.d/tuleap-svnroot.conf /etc/httpd/conf.d/svnroot.conf /etc/httpd/conf.d/codendi_svnroot.conf
    tuleap queue-system-check
    tuleap process-system-events default

Some of the files that are listed in the ``rm`` command might not exist on your platform, that's normal.

Tuleap 14.1
===========

There is one new plugin available for install:

- :ref:`tuleap-plugin-fts-meilisearch <full-text-search-admin>`

Tuleap 14.0
===========

There are two new plugins available for install:

- :ref:`tuleap-plugin-fts-db <full-text-search-admin>`
- :ref:`tuleap-plugin-onlyoffice <onlyoffice-integration>`
