Tuleap 15.x
###########

Tuleap 15.13
============

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 15.12
============

API BREAKING CHANGE:
--------------------

``/api/cross_tracker_reports/{id}/content`` REST endpoint changed. The previously added parameter ``return_format`` is removed and replaced by the optional parameter ``report_mode``.
Its value can be either ``default`` for classic Cross-tracker search or ``expert`` to use the new way. 
Cross-tracker search widgets have been updated along the API changes, they will keep functioning as before.


nginx directive ``server_names_hash_bucket_size`` is now managed automatically
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuleap now automatically sets the nginx directive ``server_names_hash_bucket_size`` to an appropriate value.
If you had manually set it in your configuration in order to manage a long domain name, you will need to remove it.

Upgrade of the local Meilisearch instance from 1.7.6 to 1.9.0 and data structure change
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have deployed a :ref:`local Meilisearch instance <fts-local-meilisearch>` it will be automatically
upgraded to the 1.9.0 version. The process is automatic when the server is restarted after its update.

The upgrade will re-index all the items. Until the process is completed, some items might not be found when
searching, and an increased load on your instance is expected.

Administrators having deployed an independent Meilisearch instance should upgrade it and clear all the existing entries.
A change in Tuleap requires to re-index all the items, after the upgrade you must run:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    tuleap full-text-search:identify-all-items-to-index
    tuleap full-text-search:index-all-pending-items

Tuleap 15.11
============

New plugin: Tuleap PDF Template
-------------------------------

This plugin is only available for :ref:`Tuleap Entreprise <tuleap-enterprise>`.

How to install:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    dnf install tuleap-plugin-pdftemplate
    sudo -u codendiadm tuleap plugin:install pdftemplate
    tuleap-cfg site-deploy
    systemctl reload nginx
    systemctl restart tuleap


Tuleap 15.10
============

API BREAKING CHANGE:
--------------------

``/api/cross_tracker_reports/{id}/content`` REST endpoint changed its default return format to "selectable".
If you wish to use the previous return format, please add a parameter ``return_format=static``.
Cross-tracker search widgets have been updated to request the static return format, they will keep functioning as before.

End of Support of CentOS / RHEL 7
---------------------------------

Tuleap 15.10 is the last version supporting CentOS / RHEL 7 as
the operating system end of security support is on June 30th 2024.

Tuleap packages for CentOS / RHEL 7 will not be provided anymore.
Instances must be migrated to an EL9 system (RHEL 9, Rocky Linux 9…).

New plugin: Tuleap Artidoc
--------------------------
This plugin is only available for :ref:`Tuleap Entreprise <tuleap-enterprise>`.

How to install:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    dnf install tuleap-plugin-artidoc
    sudo -u codendiadm tuleap plugin:install artidoc
    tuleap-cfg site-deploy
    systemctl reload nginx
    systemctl restart tuleap

Tuleap 15.9
===========

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 15.8
===========

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 15.7
===========

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 15.6
===========


Removal of remaining dependencies to PHP 8.1 packages
-----------------------------------------------------

The remaining dependencies to PHP 8.1 packages have been removed.
After the upgrade you can remove the packages from your system.

On Rocky Linux 9:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    dnf remove php81\*

On CentOS/RHEL 7:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    yum remove php81\*

Tuleap 15.5
===========

End of support of PHP 8.1
-------------------------

Tuleap now comes with PHP 8.2.

PHP FPM configuration will be deployed automatically by ``tuleap-cfg site-deploy``.

If you have made some tweaks to the configuration file
``/etc/opt/remi/php81/php-fpm.d/tuleap.conf`` you will also need
to adapt them for the new configuration at ``/etc/opt/remi/php82/php-fpm.d/tuleap.conf``.

``$sys_nb_backend_workers`` removed from ``local.inc``
------------------------------------------------------

The configuration variable ``$sys_nb_backend_workers``,
used for asynchronous job processing (see :ref:`backend workers guide<installation_valkey>`),
is now set via ``tuleap config-set``.

It is recommended to remove it from ``/etc/tuleap/conf/local.inc``. If you had set it specifically
to a value greater than 2, you can keep your settings by issuing the following command:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    tuleap config-set sys_nb_backend_workers <NB>

New plugin: Tuleap Functions for Tracker
----------------------------------------

This plugin is only available for :ref:`Tuleap Entreprise <tuleap-enterprise>`.

:ref:`Tuleap Functions for Tracker <tracker-functions>` execute custom code after each artifact creation/update.

How to install:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    yum install tuleap-plugin-tracker-functions
    sudo -u codendiadm tuleap plugin:install tracker_functions
    tuleap-cfg site-deploy
    systemctl reload nginx
    systemctl restart tuleap

Tuleap 15.4
===========

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 15.3
===========

Removal of remaining dependencies to PHP 7.4 packages
-----------------------------------------------------

The remaining dependencies to PHP 7.4 packages have been removed.
After the upgrade you can remove the packages from your system.

On CentOS/RHEL 7:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    yum remove php74\*

On Rocky Linux 9:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    dnf remove php74\*

Tuleap 15.2
===========

End of support of MySQL 5.7
---------------------------

MySQL 5.7 has reached its end of life and therefore is not supported by Tuleap anymore.
You must upgrade to MySQL 8.0.

You can report to :ref:`the upgrade guide for more information <mysql80_upgrade>`.

Tuleap 15.1
===========

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 15.0
===========

.. _dbauthuser_not_needed:

Removal of the support of ForumML, CVS and of the management of system users and groups
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The features related to the ForumML plugin, CVS and the management of system users and
groups have been removed from Tuleap.

We recommend that you remove the package dependencies that were associated to these features:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    yum remove cvs-tuleap mailman-tuleap libnss-mysql

If you were relying on the management of system users and groups by Tuleap you will need
to manage those users manually and you should also remove any mention of ``mysql`` in the
``/etc/nsswitch.conf`` configuration file.
