Tuleap 16.x
###########

Tuleap 16.9 - June 2025
=======================

.. NOTE::

  Tuleap 16.9 is currently under development.


Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 16.8 - May 2025
======================

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 16.7 - April 2025
========================

Minimal browser support raised to Firefox 128 ESR and Chrome 127
----------------------------------------------------------------

The best effort support is now Firefox 128 ESR and Chrome 127.
Versions older than that do not work at all anymore to browse Tuleap.

The previous minimal best effort browser version was Firefox 102 ESR which is out of security support since August 2023 (1 year and 8 months).

:ref:`The recommendation is still to use the latest version of Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge or Google Chrome <user_supported_browsers>`.

Templates dependency on Cross-Tracker Search
--------------------------------------------

Some project templates are now dependent on :ref:`the Cross-Tracker Search plugin <xts>`:

- Agile Enterprise Planning - Full ALM
- Portfolio SAFe®
- Essential SAFe® - Agile Release Train
- Essential SAFe® - Scrum Team

In order to have them listed on the project creation page, the :ref:`Cross-Tracker Search plugin <xts>` needs to be installed and activated on the platform.

Tuleap 16.6 - March 2025
========================

Configuration change for email relay using ``STARTTLS`` on a port other than 587/TCP
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If your email relay is using ``STARTTLS`` on a port other than 587/TCP you must reset the
configuration variable ``email_relayhost_smtp_use_implicit_tls`` to the default value with:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    tuleap config-reset email_relayhost_smtp_use_implicit_tls

Tuleap 16.5 - February 2025
===========================

API BREAKING CHANGE:
--------------------

CrossTracker API endpoints have fully changed, ``/api/cross_tracker_reports`` no longer exists and has been split into 2 new endpoints: ``/api/crosstracker_widget`` and ``/api/crosstracker_query``.
The documentation of those new endpoints is available in the API explorer.

Configurations moved to database
--------------------------------

Following plugins got their configuration transferred from files to database:

- Statistics (formerly ``/etc/tuleap/plugins/statistics/etc/statistics.inc``)

  - ``statistics_period``
  - ``allowed_quota`` renamed ``statistics_allowed_quota``
  - ``maximum_quota`` renamed ``statistics_maximum_quota``

- Archive Deleted Items (formerly ``/etc/tuleap/plugins/archivedeleteditems/etc/archivedeleteditems.inc``)

  - ``archive_path`` renamed ``archive_deleted_items_path``

- Webdav (formerly ``/etc/tuleap/plugins/webdav/etc/webdav.inc``)

  - ``max_file_size`` renamed ``webdav_max_file_size``
  - ``write_access_enabled`` renamed ``webdav_write_access_enabled``

- Docman (formerly ``/etc/tuleap/plugins/docman/etc/docman.inc``)

  - ``docman_root``
  - ``embedded_are_allowed`` renamed ``docman_embedded_are_allowed``
  - ``only_siteadmin_can_delete`` renamed ``docman_only_siteadmin_can_delete``

Configuration variables can be found with ``tuleap config-list`` and modified with ``tuleap config-set``.

Before 16.5, configuration variables were defined in files, the upgrade process will rename
the files automatically (with ``tuleapsave`` and a timestamp). You can review and delete the file to avoid confusions in the future.

Tuleap 16.4 - January 2025
==========================

API BREAKING CHANGE:
--------------------

``/api/cross_tracker_reports/{id}/content`` and ``/api/cross_tracker_reports/{id}`` REST endpoint changed. The optional parameter ``report_mode`` is removed.
All reports are now in mode expert and thus this parameter is no longer needed. All default report are migrated to expert mode.

Git configuration
-----------------

Git configuration options are automatically transferred to database. The following variables are impacted:

- ``git_backup_dir``
- ``weeks_number``

Other git configuration options were already in the database, you can find all configuration options with ``tuleap config-list``.

Before 16.4, configuration variables were defined in ``/etc/tuleap/plugins/git/etc/config.inc``, the upgrade process will rename
the file automatically (with ``tuleapsave`` and a timestamp). You can review and delete the file to avoid confusions in the future.

Tuleap 16.3 - January 2025
==========================

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 16.2 - December 2024
===========================

Nothing to mention.

Tuleap 16.1 - November 2024
===========================

Removal of the MySQL user ``dbauthuser``
----------------------------------------

In :ref:`Tuleap 15.0 <dbauthuser_not_needed>` the last usages of the MySQL user ``dbauthuser`` were removed.
If you still have this user in your MySQL database you should remove it.

.. sourcecode:: sql

    DROP USER IF EXISTS dbauthuser;

Tuleap 16.0 - October 2024
==========================

Nothing to mention.
