Tuleap 9.x
##########

Tuleap 9.19
===========

Redeployment of the NGINX configuration
---------------------------------------

This version comes with some changes in the NGINX configuration, so the configuration
files needs to be deployed again. Be sure to follow the update guide: :ref:`update`.

Custom headers in NGINX
-----------------------

If you have set some custom headers in nginx configuration for the Internet Explorer in compatibility mode,
you have to delete them from these configuration files.
This header is now `provided by default by Tuleap <https://tuleap.net/plugins/tracker/?aid=9007>`_.

You have to remove all the instructions ``add_header X-UA-Compatible IE=Edge;`` located in ``/etc/nginx/conf.d/*.conf`` files.


Tuleap 9.17
===========

End of support of PHP 5.3
-------------------------

.. warning::

  Tuleap does not support PHP 5.3 anymore. If you have not migrated yet, it is now
  mandatory otherwise your Tuleap instance will stop working.

Tuleap now comes with ``php 5.6`` (from Software Collections) and ``nginx`` packages by default. All new installations
defaults to this setup.

You can switch to PHP 5.6 by using::

    /usr/share/tuleap/tools/utils/php56/run.php

This will configure nginx as the new entry point for all HTTP (port 80) and HTTPS (port 443).
Your exiting apache will be updated to listen to :8080 and only locally (loopback, 127.0.0.1)
for subversion and mailman.

Everything is described in PHP 5.6 on Centos 6

Also, if you use ForumML and have not yet updated the mailman configuration,
you need to do it now, in ``/etc/mailman/mm_cfg.py`` add the following parameters at the end::

  PUBLIC_EXTERNAL_ARCHIVER = 'sudo -u codendiadm /usr/share/tuleap/plugins/forumml/bin/mail2dbng.php %(listname)s ;'
  PRIVATE_EXTERNAL_ARCHIVER = 'sudo -u codendiadm /usr/share/tuleap/plugins/forumml/bin/mail2dbng.php %(listname)s ;'

Then restart mailman::

  $> service mailman restart

New cookies protections
-----------------------

To protect users, new cookies protection have been implemented. To make these
protections as effective as possible you should make sure the setting ``sys_https_host``
is not left empty in your ``local.inc`` if your Tuleap instance is reachable over HTTPS.


Update default TLS configuration
--------------------------------

With this release we have updated the default TLS nginx configuration we provide
by default with Tuleap.
This change ensure the safest encryption settings will be used between browsers
and your Tuleap instance.

All new instances of Tuleap will use this configuration by default but if you already
have an installation, your configuration will be left untouched.

We encourage you to update it. To do it, replace the lines ``ssl_protocols`` and
``ssl_ciphers`` in ``/etc/nginx/conf.d/tuleap.conf``::

  # modern configuration. tweak to your needs.
  ssl_protocols TLSv1.2;
  ssl_ciphers 'ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305:ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-SHA384:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA256:ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256';
  ssl_prefer_server_ciphers on;

.. WARNING::
  If you use the webdav plugin with Windows 7 clients, you need to check if the
  `support of the TLSv1.2 protocol is enabled on your clients
  <https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/update-to-enable-tls-1-1-and-tls-1-2-as-default-secure-protocols-in-winhttp-in-windows-c4bd73d2-31d7-761e-0178-11268bb10392>`_
  before updating the configuration. If you update the TLS configuration and your
  Windows clients does not support TLSv1.2 they won't able to connect anymore.
  If you have the possibility on your infrastructure
  you should enable the support of TLSv1.2 on your clients,
  else if that is not something possible you should not update the TLS configuration.

Backend email notifications
---------------------------

In order to simplify Tuleap stack, the queue management for email notification that was based in 9.17 on RabbitMQ as been
changed to rely on Redis instead. If you already have a Redis server installed and configured the change will be transparent.

Otherwise you will need to setup a Redis server, checkout :ref:`backend workers guide<installation_valkey>`.

If do not use the backend email notifications, you can safely ignore this step while
upgrading.

New LDAP parameters
-------------------

Those new parameters are optional, if you don't need them, no need to define the variables.

Better nested groups
`````````````````````

LDAP group configuration was made more comprehensive. You can now used nested groups that are defined outside the global
configured group branch.

Let's assume you have a structure like this:

* Base       DC=company,DC=com"
* Groups     OU=groups,DC=company,DC=com"
* ExtGroups  OU=groups_ext,DC=company,DC=com"

And you have a group "allUsers" which itself includes only two other groups "internalUsers" and "externalUsers" and "internalUsers" and "externalUsers" each have some users in them - like this:

.. code-block:: bash

    - allUsers (group)        CN=allUsers,OU=groups,DC=company,DC=com
      - internalUsers (group) CN=internalUsers,OU=groups,DC=company,DC=com
          - user A..E (users)
      - externalUsers (group) CN=externalUsers,OU=groups_ext,DC=company,DC=com"
          - user F..H (users)

Then you can now link a Tuleap Project to "allUsers" and it will include all users from "internalUsers" and "externalUsers"

In order to benefit of this you will need to define two variables in ``/etc/tuleap/plugins/ldap/etc/ldap.inc``:

* ``$sys_ldap_grp_oc``: The object class that identify groups (usually ``group`` for Active Directroy and ``groupOfNames`` for OpenLDAP)
* ``$sys_ldap_user_oc``: The object class that identify users (usually ``person`` for Active Directroy and ``person`` or ``posixAccount`` for OpenLDAP)

Control group look-up
`````````````````````

By default, for performances reasons, Tuleap only look at the root of defined group dn when it needs to search for group names (autocompletion).

You can now change it to a subtree look-up if your LDAP is properly indexed or if the dataset is small enough (be careful about performances).

* ``$sys_ldap_grp_search_scope`` can be either ``onelevel`` (default & recommended) or ``subtree``


Tuleap 9.16
===========

Purge old log file
-------------------

If your Tuleap instance is quite old, a useless (and heavy) log file could be created under ``/var/log/tuleap/debug.log``
This file is no more written since Tuleap 9.15 and could be safely deleted.

All the information about this file could be found in the `Tuleap public request <https://tuleap.net/plugins/tracker/?aid=10815>`_

Tuleap 9.15
===========

SOAP API
--------

The documentation of the deprecated SOAP API is not anymore displayed. If your users still need it, you can force the display by adding the following statement in the ``/etc/tuleap/conf/local.inc``:

.. code-block:: php

  $should_display_documentation_about_deprecated_soap_api = 1;

Users should **consider using REST API instead**.

PHP 5.6 / nginx
---------------

In ``/etc/opt/remi/php56/php-fpm.d/tuleap.conf`` please add/uncomment the following if needed::

  php_value[post_max_size] = 256M
  php_value[upload_max_filesize] = 256M
  php_value[max_input_vars] = 15000

In ``/etc/nginx/conf.d/tuleap.conf`` please update the ``client_max_body_size``::

  client_max_body_size 256M;

ForumML
-------

You should upgrade the way mailman and Tuleap communicates, in ``/etc/mailman/mm_cfg.py``::

  PUBLIC_EXTERNAL_ARCHIVER = 'sudo -u codendiadm /usr/share/tuleap/plugins/forumml/bin/mail2dbng.php %(listname)s ;'
  PRIVATE_EXTERNAL_ARCHIVER = 'sudo -u codendiadm /usr/share/tuleap/plugins/forumml/bin/mail2dbng.php %(listname)s ;'


Tuleap 9.14
===========

.. attention::

  You can (and should) do this prior to upgrade so the upgrade will be straightforward.

  If your ``my.cnf`` on your mysql server contains ``old_passwords=1`` you will have to desactivate it (comment the line)
  and restart mysql.

  Then update your password, as ``codendiadm`` and ``dbauthuser`` DB user:

  * ``SET SESSION old_passwords=0;``
  * ``SET PASSWORD = PASSWORD('your_existing_password')``

Software Collections are now mandatory
--------------------------------------

Starting Tuleap 9.14 Software Collections must be enabled on your system if you have not done it yet.

In a CentOS environnement, this could be done with:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> yum install centos-release-scl

In a RHEL environnement, this could be done with:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> yum-config-manager --enable rhel-server-rhscl-6-rpms


PHP 5.6 / nginx
---------------

.. note::

  It's recommended to migrate to PHP 5.6 for better security and performances. Please note that PHP 5.3 will no longer
  be supported after 9.16 (2 releases).

Tuleap now comes with ``php 5.6`` (from Software Collections) and ``nginx`` packages by default. All new installations
defaults to this setup.

You can switch to php 5.6 by using::

    /usr/share/tuleap/tools/utils/php56/run.php

This will configure nginx as the new entry point for all HTTP (port 80) and HTTPS (port 443).
Your exiting apache will be updated to listen to :8080 and only locally (loopback, 127.0.0.1)
for subversion and mailman.

Everything is described in PHP 5.6 on Centos 6

Crosstracker plugin
-------------------

.. note::

  This module is part of :ref:`Tuleap Entreprise <tuleap-enterprise>`. It might
  not be available on your installation of Tuleap.

The crosstracker plugin is now part of :ref:`Tuleap Entreprise <tuleap-enterprise>` only.
You will have to install the new plugin called tuleap-plugin-crosstracker.
Once done, you can migrate your old widget to the new format, please run:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    cd /usr/share/tuleap
    src/utils/php-launcher.sh plugins/crosstracker/bin/migrate_old_crosstracker_widgets.php


CLI is gone
-----------

In order to help the deprecation usage of the SOAP API, we do not deliver anymore the CLI tool,
nor its documentation. This tool was here to help Tuleap SOAP API adoption in the early days.
Users that downloaded the CLI in the past can still use it, the SOAP API has not been changed yet.

Users should **consider using REST API instead**.

Indexation of follow-up comments
--------------------------------

Since Tuleap 9.14 we can search in artifacts follow-up comments in TQL. In order to achieve this,
the existing comments must be indexed. Since we don't know how much it can take on your instance
(there is high chance that indexing all comments of 1M+ artifcats will take some time), we prefer
to delegate the migration to site administrator instead of relying on our standard database upgrade
process (forgeupgrade).

When the usage of your server is low, you can launch the following script:

.. sourcecode:: shell

  cd /usr/share/tuleap
  src/utils/php-launcher.sh plugins/tracker/bin/store_stripped_body_of_comments.php

The script will display how much comments it will have to store. You can safely cancel the execution
of the script at any moment with ``ctrl-c`` and relaunch it later.

Tuleap 9.13
===========

API keys used to access to a Bugzilla server in the Bugzilla reference plugin are now encrypted
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you use the Bugzilla reference plugin, it is recommended you change the API keys
used until now. These keys are now stored encrypted instead of in cleartext in
the database. You can do that as a site administrator in the plugin configuration.

HTTPS is forced by default if available
---------------------------------------

Tuleap now forces the use of the HTTPS protocol if the parameter `sys_https_host`
is not set to an empty value in the `local.inc` configuration file. Consequently,
the parameter `sys_force_ssl` is no more needed as it becomes the only possible
behavior and could safely be removed from your configuration file.

Move to Mediawiki 1.23
----------------------

It's strongly recommended to migrate all your mediawiki databases to 1.23 (LTS) in order to
prepare PHP 5.6 compatibility.

Tuleap 9.12
===========

Update to the Test Management plugin
------------------------------------

The :ref:`Test Management<testmgmt>` plugin is only available with
:ref:`Tuleap Enterprise<tuleap-enterprise>`.

Instances with the :ref:`Test Management<testmgmt>` plugin installed and activated
must execute the following command before running the ``forgeupgrade`` command
during the update procedure:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> sed -i 's#/usr/share/tuleap/plugins/trafficlights#/usr/share/tuleap/plugins/testmanagement#' /etc/tuleap/forgeupgrade/config.ini

Instances with the plugin installed should update their repo file
(probably ``/etc/yum.repos.d/tuleap.repo``) to set the base URL of the Test Management
repository to something like: ``https://<companyname>:<password>@my.enalean.com/pub/tuleap-by-enalean/tuleap-testmanagement/current/rhel6/noarch/``.
If you encounter troubles to update your configuration, please contact your
:ref:`Tuleap Enterprise<tuleap-enterprise>` support.

After the upgrade, when you access for the first time in each project Test Management,
a project administrator will need to link the service to a tracker to collect issues
in the service administration. The tracker can be a tracker already existing
or you can create a new one dedicated to issues found while executing a test suite.

Plugin Git with Gitolite3 now requires Git 2.9
----------------------------------------------

If you have the package ``tuleap-plugin-git-gitolite3`` installed you will need
to enable the Software Collections repositories to be able to retrieve Git 2.9.

In a CentOS environnement, this could be done with:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> yum install centos-release-scl

In a RHEL environnement, this could be done with:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> yum-config-manager --enable rhel-server-rhscl-6-rpms

The configuration of Gitolite must also been manually updated to take into account
the new path to the Git binaries. The update can be done with the following command:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> sed -i "s#/opt/rh/git19/root/usr/bin#/opt/rh/rh-git29/root/usr/bin#" /var/lib/gitolite/.gitolite.rc

Deprecated feature
------------------

- Direct Database Access is disabled by default, and will be removed in a next release.
  If users complain, you can enable the feature by adding
  ``$sys_enable_deprecated_feature_database_export = 1;`` into ``/etc/tuleap/conf/local.inc`` file.
  Please contact us if it is the case, else we will remove completely the feature.

Tuleap 9.10
===========

Custom plugins impacted by _addHook removal
-------------------------------------------

We have done some code clean up in plugins management. You may be interested if you have custom
plugins installed on your platform: starting Tuleap 9.9.99.73, we removed the deprecated method
``_addHook`` (replaced by ``addHook``). Your platform will display a blank page if you are still
using the former version.

In order to fix the issue (if any), please replace all occurrences of ``_addHook`` by ``addHook``
in your custom plugins.

Tuleap 9.9
==========

Migration to the new dashboards can be slow
-------------------------------------------

Tuleap 9.9 introduces a new dashboard system for users and projects. The migration
of the existing dashboard can take some time depending on the number of users
and projects on your Tuleap instance. Plan your update accordingly.

Bugzilla reference plugin uses API key instead of the user's password
---------------------------------------------------------------------

If you had configured Bugzilla servers you must edit them to provide an API key
instead of the user's password that was previously used. Please refer to the
`Bugzilla documentation <https://bugzilla.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using/preferences.html#api-keys>`_
if you need help to get an API key.

Packages in Tuleap repository are now signed
--------------------------------------------

The packages of the Tuleap repository are now signed so you can be sure that the
packages you got has not been altered.

We suggest you modify your repository configuration (`/etc/yum.repos.d/Tuleap.repo`)
to:

.. sourcecode:: ini

        [Tuleap]
        name=Tuleap
        baseurl=https://ci.tuleap.net/yum/tuleap/rhel/6/dev/$basearch
        enabled=1
        gpgcheck=1
        gpgkey=https://ci.tuleap.net/yum/tuleap/gpg.key

On the first run after the modification, Yum will ask if the key used to sign the
packages is trusted.

The key has the short ID `ADB0D167` and the fingerprint `3D03 B41A 172A 7FB9 4F1E  9E9E C0B5 E775 ADB0 D167`.

.. _deployment_guide_9_8:

Tuleap 9.8
==========

Disable web editing of plugin properties available in the site administration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is strongly recommended to disable the web editing of plugin properties for security reasons.
You can disable the feature by adding into your ``local.inc`` the following parameter:

.. sourcecode:: php

        $sys_plugins_editable_configuration = 0;

Changes in layout
-----------------

Starting 9.8, the footer has been changed to respect BurningParrot style guide. This means that
if you customized the footer (in ``/etc/tuleap/site-content/…/layout/``), then there are high
changes that its style will be broken. If this is the case, then we suggest that you take a look at
the new version of the layout to be compatible (see ``/usr/share/tuleap/site-content/…/layout/``).

This also applies to the following pages:

* /contact.php
* /help/

If you customized them, you will have to apply the new look and feel or they will appear broken.

Tuleap 9.7
==========

Pull requests in a Git repository using fine grained permissions with `tuleap-plugin-git`
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Starting Tuleap 9.7, it is not possible to merge or abandon a pull request in repository
using fine grained permissions with `tuleap-plugin-git`. To make it works, you need
to upgrade to `tuleap-plugin-git-gitolite3`. You can find more information on how to do
the migration from Gitolite 2 to Gitolite 3 in the administration guide.

Update of Git access log storage
--------------------------------

Starting Tuleap 9.7 the logs of git read access (gitolite) change to save disk space and improve parsing time. As the
time to convert existing logs might be quite long (estimated to ~20 hours for dataset of 34GB) it's available in a dedicated
convertion script meant to be run after the upgrade during a quiet moment (during week-end for instance).

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> /usr/share/tuleap/src/utils/php-launcher.sh /usr/share/tuleap/plugins/git/bin/convert_gitolite_full_logs.php

Update the unsafe pattern in the Gitolite configuration
-------------------------------------------------------

To avoid getting your Gitolite configuration broken by users that are Git administrators,
it is recommend to change the unsafe pattern:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> sed -i "s/$UNSAFE_PATT = qr();/$UNSAFE_PATT = qr([\\\n]);/" /var/lib/gitolite/.gitolite.rc

Tuleap 9.5
==========

Purge data from the userlog plugin
----------------------------------

If you use the userlog plugin the data stored in the database can grow quite big.
We have introduced a new utility to help you clean it. You can call it this way:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> /usr/share/tuleap/src/utils/php-launcher.sh /usr/share/tuleap/plugins/userlog/bin/clean_userlog_request.php

Tuleap 9.4
==========

End of life for the Subversion authentication mod ``modmysql`` and ``modldap``
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In Tuleap 9.5 the remaining SVN repositories still not using ``modperl`` as the authentication
mod will be migrated and ``modmysql`` and ``modldap`` will not be available anymore.

To ease the migration, we encourage you to make the switch today by setting in
your ``local.inc`` the parameter ``sys_auth_svn_mod`` to ``modperl``.

Block mail notification option
------------------------------

Tuleap 9.4 introduces a change on the way mail notifications are handled.
You can choose to never send notifications to non projects member of private project.

This feature is disabled by default, if you want to enable it, update ``local.inc`` and set ``sys_mail_secure_mode`` to 1.

.. sourcecode:: php

        // When 0 mail sent to everybody can lead to information leak, non projects members can receive mails of private projects
        $sys_mail_secure_mode = 1;


Update default TLS configuration
--------------------------------

With this release we have updated the default TLS Apache configuration we provide with Tuleap.
This change can result in small performance gain and use the safest cipher suite
we have available.

All new instances of Tuleap will use this new configuration but if you already
have an installation, your configuration will be left untouched.

We encourage you to update it. To do it, replace the line SSLCipherSuite
in ``/etc/httpd/conf/ssl.conf`` or ``/etc/httpd/conf.d/tuleap-vhost.conf``,
depending how old your installation is, by:

  .. sourcecode:: ApacheConf

    #   SSL Cipher Suite:
    # List the ciphers that the client is permitted to negotiate.
    # See the mod_ssl documentation for a complete list.
    SSLCipherSuite ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305:ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:DHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:DHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA256:ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384:ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-SHA384:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-SHA:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA:DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256:DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA:DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256:DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA:ECDHE-ECDSA-DES-CBC3-SHA:ECDHE-RSA-DES-CBC3-SHA:EDH-RSA-DES-CBC3-SHA:AES128-GCM-SHA256:AES256-GCM-SHA384:AES128-SHA256:AES256-SHA256:AES128-SHA:AES256-SHA:DES-CBC3-SHA:!DSS


Merge of fusionforge_compat plugin with the Mediawiki plugin
------------------------------------------------------------

Since Tuleap 9.3 the fusionforge_compat plugin has been merged with the Mediawiki
plugin. As a result the package ``tuleap-plugin-fusionforge_compat`` is an empty
shell that can be safely removed with ``yum remove tuleap-plugin-fusionforge_compat``.

The package ``tuleap-plugin-fusionforge_compat`` is going to be removed completely
in the next version of Tuleap.

Invalidation of all existing user sessions
------------------------------------------

Tuleap 9.4 introduces a change in the way the user sessions are handled. All
existing user sessions are flushed during this upgrade, this will force your
users to log in again.

End of support of package ``viewvc-tuleap``
-------------------------------------------

Since Tuleap 8.19, Tuleap is able to use the package ``viewvc`` provided by EPEL.
Starting Tuleap 9.4, the package ``viewvc-tuleap`` is removed from the official
Tuleap repository. For those of you that have still not made the switch, we urge
you to do it for security reasons. The swap of the packages can be done this way:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> yum shell -y <<EOF
    remove viewvc-tuleap
    install viewvc
    run
    quit
    EOF

Tuleap 9.3
==========

Snippets are disabled
---------------------

The snippets are now disabled unless specifically forced and this feature will
be completely removed in Tuleap 9.5. In the meantime, if you really need it,
the feature can be force activated by setting ``$sys_use_snippet`` to ``'force'``.

Tuleap 9.2
==========

HTTP persistent connection is now enabled by default on new installations
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
The default Apache configuration that is deployed during Tuleap installation now enable HTTP persistent connection.
We encourage existing instances to do the same as it can improve performance by setting the option ``KeepAlive``
to ``On`` in the configuration file ``/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf``.

Tuleap 9.1
==========

We put some gloss, makeup and rhinestones on site administration. This is the introduction of a new theme named BurningParrot. It is transparent for the users – no need to change the user preferences, however it comes as a dependency of ``tuleap-all`` package. When you upgrade to 9.1, if you don't have/upgrade ``tuleap-all`` package then you should manually install ``tuleap-theme-burningparrot`` package. Enjoy <3

In the same vein, we removed the old and nasty theme named 'Tuleap'. You must issue the following command if you have installed it: ``yum remove tuleap-theme-tuleap``.

Tuleap 9.0
==========

Definitive removal of the deprecated password storage
-----------------------------------------------------
This release can only work with the password storage introduced in Tuleap 8.3.
You must ensure that you have properly updated the Proftpd plugin.

The following command must be executed this script:

.. sourcecode:: shell

    #> /usr/share/tuleap/plugins/proftpd/bin/switch_to_unix_password.php

You must also check that in ``/etc/proftpd.conf``, the parameter SQLAuthTypes is set to Crypt and not MD5.

Import all gitolite3 logs
-------------------------
You can parse all your gitolite3 log by running next script,
logs previsously parsed won't be taken in account.

    .. sourcecode:: bash

        $> su - codendiadm
        $> cd /usr/share/tuleap/
        $> ./src/utils/php-launcher.sh plugins/git/bin/import_all_giotlite3_logs.php
