Docker images configuration
===========================

This section covers the configuration details that applies to both images.

If you want the default configuration you can go to verify the image authencity.

.. _docker-environment-variables:

Environment variables
`````````````````````

You can also modify the behaviour of Tuleap with environment variables.

General
#######

* ``TULEAP_FQDN``: the Tuleap server name (without protocol).

Database
########

* ``TULEAP_SYS_DBHOST``: database server name. See :ref:`database installation <install_database>` for specific configuration.
* ``DB_ADMIN_USER``: admin user (``root`` or equivalent).
* ``DB_ADMIN_PASSWORD``: admin user password.
* ``TULEAP_SYS_DBPASSWD``: application user (typically ``tuleapadm``) password.
* ``TULEAP_SYS_DBPORT``: define this variable if your database runs on a port different of ``3306``.
* ``TULEAP_SYS_ENABLESSL``: can be either ``0`` to disable or ``1`` to enable encryption of traffic with database. Default is ``0``
* ``TULEAP_SYS_DB_SSL_VERIFY_CERT``: can be either ``0`` to disable or ``1`` to enable verification of database's certificates. Default is ``0``. **WARNING**: perl code (used for subversion core and some maintenance scripts) cannot enforce this, those parts will do encryption without certificate verification.
* ``TULEAP_SYS_DB_SSL_CA``: path toward a custom CA file for certifacte verification.

Site administration
###################

* ``SITE_ADMINISTRATOR_PASSWORD``: tuleap ``admin`` user password.
* ``TULEAP_SYS_EMAIL_ADMIN``: email address where all the system emails will be redirected (**since 13.8**).

Redis
#####

* ``TULEAP_FPM_SESSION_MODE``: you can set it to ``redis`` so php sessions will be stored in a `Redis <https://redis.io>`_ or `Valkey <https://valkey.io/>`_ K/V store.
* ``TULEAP_REDIS_SERVER``: needed if you set ``redis`` for ``TULEAP_FPM_SESSION_MODE``.
* ``TULEAP_REDIS_PORT``: needed if redis is listening on port that is not ``6379`` (the default).
* ``TULEAP_REDIS_PASSWORD``: needed if redis requires a password.
* ``TULEAP_REDIS_USE_TLS``: set to 1 if you want to encrypt the connection to Redis.

Email
#####

* ``TULEAP_EMAIL_TRANSPORT``: email transport (sendmail by default). (**since 13.12**).
* ``TULEAP_EMAIL_RELAYHOST``: email relay host (none by default).

.. warning::

    Please note that not all plugins can be used with this configuration setting (:ref:`email_relay<emailrelay>`) and you might need to
    customize the image to fit your needs.

Passwords
`````````

* We recommend at least 20 chars but only alphabetical & numbers,
* They are set at the first run only (not updated automatically).

TLS Certificates
````````````````

Tuleap container generate a self signed certificate can only communicate in https. In order to have a valid certificate
for your end users you either need to:

* Delegate the certificate management to your ingress controller (Kubernetes)
* Have a reverse proxy in front of the Tuleap container to deal with the certificate
* I you don't want to bother with a reverse proxy, you can modify the certificate generated by tuleap and set yours:

  * They key must be ``/data/etc/pki/tls/private/localhost.key.pem``
  * The cert must be ``/data/etc/pki/tls/certs/localhost.cert.pem``
  * If you need something more complex, use a reverse proxy.

.. _docker_image_ca:

Certification Authority
```````````````````````

If you manage your own trust chain, you might need to let container be aware of your own CA.
It's mainly useful when Tuleap should be able to communicate with a 3rd party systems (jenkins, jira, gitlab, webhooks servers, etc)
exposed over TLS but with a certificate that is not part of the standard CA bundle.

The extra CA must be mounted at the container root ``/extra_ca.pem``. Tuleap will ensure this CA is added to system's bundle automatically.

Backup/Restore
``````````````

You probably want to take a look at the :ref:`Backup/Restore guide <backup>` to check data/folder structure for your docker volumes.
